doc: net: Add socket service API usage documentation (#87110)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/connectivity/networking/api/socket_service.rst

.. _socket_service_interface:

> Socket Service
> ##############

Reviewer: Feels like the plural is better suited in the title?

```suggestion
Socket Services
###############
```

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Overview
********

> The socket service API can be used to install a handler that is called if there
> is data received to a socket. The API helps to avoid creating a dedicated thread
> for each TCP or UDP services that the application provides. Instead one thread
> is created which can serve data to multiple listening sockets which saves memory
> as only one thread needs to be created in the system in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The socket service API can be used to install a handler that is called if there
is data received on a socket. The API helps to avoid creating a dedicated thread
for each TCP or UDP service that the application provides. Instead one thread
is created that serves data to multiple listening sockets which saves memory
as only one thread needs to be created in the system in this case.
```

See :zephyr:code-sample:`sockets-service-echo` sample application to learn how
to create a simple BSD socket based server application using the sockets service API.
The source code for this sample application can be found at:
:zephyr_file:`samples/net/sockets/echo_service`.

API Description
***************

Socket service API is enabled using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_SOCKETS_SERVICE`
config option and implements the following operations:

* :c:macro:`NET_SOCKET_SERVICE_SYNC_DEFINE`

  Define a network socket service. This socket service is created with extern
  scope so it can be used from multiple C source files.

* :c:macro:`NET_SOCKET_SERVICE_SYNC_DEFINE_STATIC`

  Define a network socket service with static scope. This socket service can only
  be used within one C source file.

* :c:func:`net_socket_service_register`

  Register pollable sockets for this service. User must create the sockets
  before this call.

* :c:func:`net_socket_service_unregister`

  Remove pollable sockets for this service. User can close the sockets after
  this call.

* :c:type:`net_socket_service_handler_t`

>   User specified callback which is called when data is received to the
>   listening socket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  User specified callback which is called when data is received on the
  listening socket.
```

> Application Overview

Reviewer: The overview really only shows a "simple" UDP service, while it is more complex for TCP as it creates new socket file descriptors for connecting clients.
It would be nice to have that distinction in the documentation.

Author: Yes, I thought about this, but did not want to write complete application as the `echo-service` application has that implemented. But we could put something more about TCP and what to do with the accepted socket.

Reviewer: Yes, one thing that tricked me, and would be nice to have documented, is that the `accept` call can be done in the callback too. This isn't the case in the `echo-service` sample, where instead a loop is used for a single client.

In most cases, I think, services should serve multiple clients.

Author: Sure, we could enhance the echo-service sample to be a bit more realistic. Patches are welcome to enhance the sample.

********************

> When socket service API is enabled, the application must create the service like
> this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the socket service API is enabled, an application must create the service like
this:
```

The application needs to create the sockets, then register them to the socket
service after which the socket service thread will start to call the callback
for any incoming data.

.. code-block:: c

   /* Create one or multiple sockets */

   struct pollfd sockfd_udp[1] = { 0 };
   int sock, ret;

   sock = socket(AF_INET6, SOCK_DGRAM, IPPROTO_UDP);
   if (sock < 0) {
	LOG_ERR("socket: %d", -errno);
	return -errno;
   }

   /* Set possible socket options after creation */
   ...

   /* Then bind the socket to local address */
   if (bind(sock, (struct sockaddr *)addr, sizeof(*addr)) < 0) {
	LOG_ERR("bind: %d", -errno);
	return -errno;
   }

   /* Set the polled sockets */
   sockfd_udp[0].fd = sock;
   sockfd_udp[0].events = POLLIN;

   /* Register UDP socket to service handler */
   ret = net_socket_service_register(&service_udp, sockfd_udp,
				     ARRAY_SIZE(sockfd_udp), NULL);
   if (ret < 0) {
	LOG_ERR("Cannot register socket service handler (%d)", ret);
	return ret;
   }

   /* Application logic happens here. When application is ready to
    * quit, one should unregister the socket service and close the
    * socket.
    */

>    (void)net_socket_service_unregister(&service_udp);

Author: As the example was taken from echo_service sample, I will use its variable names so the correct one is `service_udp`. I will send a fix for this.
